# PawPower

## Overview

This a web app that is designed to help pet owners whether experienced or not to take well care of their pets and monitor their health with an integrated AI the scans images of the pet and gives insights and health issues and suggestion in taking care or solving an issue but always refering to consult a vet in cases of real health issues. It includes a calender which includes tasks generated by the AI corresponding to each pet to maximize the taking care process. The Ai is able to scan the scan the pet and produce a report of the pet's details that were inferred from the image allowing the owner to confirm and edit. This app can be utilized by farmers, shelters, pet-owners and vets.

## Goals

1. Let authenticated users to add pet profiles to their accounts where they or the AI can fill the information.
2. Let AI to scan images provided by the user of their pet and analyze it and extract information and health.
3. Provide a calender with tasks respective to the specific pet to help own take care.
4. Send the user notifications to remind them.
5. Allow the user to scan their pet at anytime to receive feedback.
6. Let the user know if any unusual in their pets health and give suggestions and/or refer to vet.
7. Allow the user to see scan history.

## Core User Flow

1. User Sign up or Sign in.
2. User creates new pet profile.
3. User either upload image of pet and allow the AI to fill information and user edits and confirms or the users inputs data manually.
4. AI generates calendar with personalized tasks based on pet info.
5. User uplaod an image of pet.
6. AI analyzes image and gives insights of health and other info.
7. If pet is in critical health then AI routes the user to closest vet.

## Features

### Authentication and Profiles

- User sign-in and routes protection.
- Pet profile creation and ownership.
- Profiles list and workspace navigation.

### Dual-Path Pet Registration

- Two options at profile creation, AI or manual.
- AI scans pet and extract visible and acccurate information and user cornfimation.
- Manual intup of data by the user.

### Dynamic Checklist Dashboard

- Show editable tasks to all pets to complete.
- Show user insights of their pets.
- Allow user to add custom tasks and notes.
- Allow user to view all pet scans history.

### Pricate Pet Profile

- Show editable tasks to that specific pets to complete.
- Show user insights of the pet.
- Allow user to add custom tasks and notes.
- Allow user to scan pet anytime.
- Allow user to view specific pet scans history.

### Dynamic Calendar

- Show pet tasks on calender.
- Allow the user to add to calender.

### The Baseline AI Triage Engine

- Camera module uplaod image of pet.
- AI processes it.
- Displays a simplified and legally compliant Triage Bottom Sheet.
- Show colored indicators and bulleted suggestion respective to issue.

### Local Vet Finder

- Show the user closest vet in case of AI inaccurate analysis of image or severity of situation.
- Allow vets to register themselves.
- Route the user to that closest vet.

### Push Notification Cron

- Notify user of incomplete task to his pets.
- A time-zone aware backend.

### Ephemeral Public Data Access

- Allow a user to generate a temporary sharable web report link for others to see pet data.
- Link bypass login.
- Link expires within 2 hours after creation.

## Scope

### In Scope

- Authentication and Profiles
- Dual-Path Pet Registration
- Dynamic Checklist Dashboard
- Pricate Pet Profile
- The Baseline AI Triage Engine
- Local Vet Finder
- Push Notification Cron

### Out of Scope

- Billing and subscription system.
- No diagnostic claims without refering to vet to check.
- No medication prescribing.
- Mobile native application.

## Success Criteria

1. A signed in user can create a pet profile.
2. A signed in user with pet profile can input pet info manually or upload image to AI for AI to extrct info and show an edit and confirm dialog.
3. A signed in user with pets can see his dashboard.
4. AI generate insights and tasks of the pets after profile creation to dashbord and calendar.
5. A signed in user can uploada a photo of his pet and AI scans it and analyse and provide colored report and adds to histoty.
6. A signed in user can view scan history of his pet with images and reports.
7. AI updates information if needed between scans and prompt user to confirm or edit.
